Desktop Discovery guide (#17602)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/desktop-access/getting-started.mdx

---
title: Getting Started
description: Automatically add Teleport Desktop Access to your infrastructure
---

<Details
  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="10.2.6"
>

The features documented on this page are available in Teleport `10.2.6` and higher.

</Details>

> This guide will help you configure Teleport and your Active Directory Domain Controller to communicate securely with each other, populate available desktops, and provide secure access to them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will help you configure Teleport and your Active Directory domain controller to communicate securely with each other, register available desktops with your Teleport cluster, and provide secure access to them.
```
- use Microsoft's capitalization of "domain controller"
- be a bit more explicit about what Teleport is doing with desktops

## Prerequisites

> 

Reviewer: Since Step 1 involves installing the Auth/Proxy, should we add a prerequisite for a host where you will install them?

Author: Adding in a ScopedBlock for oss and ent.

- A server or virtual machine running a Windows Server operating system.
- A host where you will run the Teleport Desktop Service.

> - <ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}> This **can not** be the same instance

Reviewer: I think this would be a bit clearer as a separate paragraph within the previous bullet, rather than a new bullet.

  of Teleport running your Auth and/or Proxy service(s). To install Desktop Access into an existing Teleport instance running other services, see the [Getting Started](getting-started.mdx) guide for Desktop Access.</ScopedBlock>

  See [Installation](../../installation.mdx) for details.

## Step 1/2. Install Teleport

### Set up the Teleport Auth and Proxy Services

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/start-auth-proxy.mdx!)

## Step 2/2. Run the discovery wizard

In your web browser, access the teleport Web UI at <ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>`teleport.example.com`</ScopedBlock><ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>`mytennant.teleport.sh`</ScopedBlock>. Click on your user name at the top right and select **Manage Access**, Select "Desktop" from the main menu, then **NEXT**:

> If your Windows server is already running as an Active Directory controller, skip to the next step. Otherwise, copy and paste the first command provided into a Windows Powershell window. If your server is not already running AD Certificate Services, copy and paste the second command after the first one completes and the server restarts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your Windows server is already running as an Active Directory controller, skip to the next step. Otherwise, copy and paste the first command provided into a Windows PowerShell window. If your server is not already running AD Certificate Services, copy and paste the second command after the first one completes and the server restarts:
```

![Install Active Directory](../../img/desktop-access/install-active-directory.png)

Once the server is restarted from one or both command executions, click **NEXT**.

> Copy and paste the provided command into a Windows Powershell window to download and run the 'configure Active Directory' script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy and paste the provided command into a Windows PowerShell window to download and run the 'configure Active Directory' script:
```

![Configure Active Directory](../../img/desktop-access/configure-active-directory.png)

Click **NEXT**.

> The Powershell script will output a Teleport configuration block. Copy this block to a temporary location. Click **Next**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PowerShell script will output a Teleport configuration block. Copy this block to a temporary location. Click **Next**.
```

---
title: Getting Started
description: Automatically add Teleport Desktop Access to your infrastructure
---

<Details
  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="10.2.6"
>

The features documented on this page are available in Teleport `10.2.6` and higher.

</Details>

> This guide will help you configure Teleport and your Active Directory domain controller to communicate securely with each other, register available desktops with your Teleport cluster, and provide secure access to them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide will help you configure Teleport and Active Directory in order to provide secure, passwordless access to Windows desktops.
```

We say "domain controller" too much. In most real-world deployments, there's more than one, plus the configuration we do here is via Group Policy.

## Prerequisites

<ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>

- One or more hosts to run the Teleport Auth and Proxy services on.

</ScopedBlock>

> - A server or virtual machine running a Windows Server operating system.

Reviewer 2: Windows Server is not necessarily required for the desktops. Though this guide may require it if it installs AD. Any suggestions for how we might make this more clear?

Author: I'm not sure what you're saying here. Teleport Desktop Access requires AD, and AD needs to be run on a Windows Server OS.

Reviewer 2: Yes, but you can have 1 Windows Server box running AD and 1000 Windows (not Windows server) boxes that you connect to via Teleport.

I don't want the docs to make it sound like Teleport can only connect to Windows Server instances.

Author: How about:

```suggestion
- A server or virtual machine running a Windows Server operating system, to
  provide Active Directory services.
```

Author: How about:

```suggestion
- A server or virtual machine running a Windows Server operating system, to
  provide Active Directory services. This will provide Desktop Access to itself
  and all other Windows desktops connected to the domain.
```

Reviewer 2: Close, but I don't love the "will provide Desktop Access" part. AD provides lots of things, but it's Teleport that's ultimately providing access.

Author: It was my intention that "Teleport" be the "This" in the second sentence. I will attempt to make that clearer:

```suggestion
A server or virtual machine running a Windows Server operating system, to
provide Active Directory services. Teleport communicates with Active Directory
to sign and distribute CA certificates to Windows desktops in its domain,
so Teleport can provide secure connections to those desktops.
```

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I know this probably feels like bikeshedding but I think technical accuracy matters. How about:

> A server or virtual machine running a Windows Server operating system.
> In this guide, we'll install Active Directory on this server in order
> to support passwordless logins with Teleport.

Author: Doesn't feel like bike shedding at all. I also think that technical accuracy matters, I'm a technical writer. Hopefully you weren't insinuating otherwise.
Please feel free to educate me on how my version was technically inaccurate, hopefully in another medium. In the meantime, I'm fine with your version, with one amendment to resolve one of your earlier concerns:

> Yes, but you can have 1 Windows Server box running AD and 1000 Windows (not Windows server) boxes that you connect to via Teleport.
>
>I don't want the docs to make it sound like Teleport can only connect to Windows Server instances.

```suggestion
- A server or virtual machine running a Windows Server operating system.
  In this guide, we'll install Active Directory on this server in order
  to support passwordless logins with Teleport to the Windows desktops
  in the Active Directory domain.
```

Reviewer 2: Yep, looks good! 🚢 it!

> - A host where you will run the Teleport Desktop Service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A Linux host where you will run the Teleport Desktop Service.
```

>   <ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}> This **can not** be the same instance

Reviewer 2: I'm concerned that this sentence may give the impression that desktop service can't be run alongside auth/proxy. Can we soften the wording a bit?

Maybe something like:

> This guide assumes that you will run Teleport's Windows Desktop Service on a dedicated host.

Author: [Resolved](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/17602/commits/c4fce01dd8b5dbcecc766b3d9eed439218fc41ca#diff-28b87359ec16686b45ba4fc96d3521a4eff9eaa2be49283cd838dfe1fbe3953dR29-R33).

>   <ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}> This **can not** be the same instance
>   of Teleport running your Auth and/or Proxy service(s). To install Desktop Access into an existing Teleport instance running other services, see the [Manual Setup](manual-setup.mdx) guide for Desktop Access.</ScopedBlock>

Author: ```suggestion
  <ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}> This guide assumes that you will
  run Teleport's Windows Desktop Service on a dedicated host. To install Desktop
  Access into an existing Teleport instance running other services, see the
  [Manual Setup](manual-setup.mdx) guide for Desktop Access.</ScopedBlock>
```

  See [Installation](../installation.mdx) for details.

## Step 1/2. Install Teleport

### Set up the Teleport Auth and Proxy Services

> (!docs/pages/includes/database-access/start-auth-proxy.mdx!)

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this be under the oss/enterprise scoped block?

Author: The partial file itself has scoped tabs:

```
<Tabs> 
<TabItem scope={["oss","enterprise"]} label="Self-Hosted">
...
</TabItem> 
<TabItem label="Teleport Cloud" scope={["cloud"]}> 
...
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2349184/201378019-9102a5be-029a-4d9d-a64d-4402674c5d98.png)

## Step 2/2. Run the discovery wizard

In your web browser, access the teleport Web UI at <ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>`teleport.example.com`</ScopedBlock><ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>`mytennant.teleport.sh`</ScopedBlock>. Click on your user name at the top right and select **Manage Access**, Select "Desktop" from the main menu, then **NEXT**:

> If your Windows server is already running as an Active Directory controller, skip to the next step. Otherwise, copy and paste the first command provided into a Windows PowerShell window. If your server is not already running AD Certificate Services, copy and paste the second command after the first one completes and the server restarts:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you already have Active Directory installed, skip to the next step. Otherwise, copy and paste the first command provided into a Windows PowerShell window. If you aren't already running AD Certificate services installed, copy and paste the second command after the first one completes and the server restarts:
```

Intentionally trying to be less vague here, because best practice is not to install AD CS on the same server as AD DS.

Author: ```suggestion
If you already have Active Directory installed, skip to the next step. Otherwise, copy and paste the first command provided into a Windows PowerShell window. If you aren't already running AD Certificate services, copy and paste the second command after the first one completes and the server restarts:
```

Had to pick between running or installed for grammar.

Reviewer 2: Either looks fine to me. Totally up to you.

![Install Active Directory](../../img/desktop-access/install-active-directory.png)

Once the server is restarted from one or both command executions, click **NEXT**.

Copy and paste the provided command into a Windows PowerShell window to download and run the 'configure Active Directory' script:

![Configure Active Directory](../../img/desktop-access/configure-active-directory.png)

Click **NEXT**.

The PowerShell script will output a Teleport configuration block. Copy this block to a temporary location. Click **Next**.

> On the host you installed Teleport to run as the Desktop Access connector, edit `/etc/teleport.yaml` and paste the configuration provided by the output of the previous step:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the Linux host you installed Teleport to run as the Desktop Access connector, edit `/etc/teleport.yaml` and paste the configuration provided by the output of the previous step:
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should also add a note here advising the user to read through the file and make any changes that may be necessary in their environment.

Author: ```suggestion
On the Linux host you installed Teleport to run as the Desktop Access connector,
edit `/etc/teleport.yaml` and paste the configuration provided by the output of
the previous step. Review and edit the addition as necessarily for your environment:
```

```yaml

> version: v3

Reviewer 2: Config version v3 is specific to Teleport 11+, so you'll need to do some manual updates here for the v10 backport.

teleport:
  auth_token: 2239...c5b21
  proxy_server: teleport.example.com:443

auth_service:
  enabled: no
ssh_service:
  enabled: no
proxy_service:
  enabled: no

windows_desktop_service:
  enabled: yes
  ldap:
    addr:     '10.10.1.50:636'
    domain:   'windows.teleport.example.com'
    username: 'WIN\svc-teleport'
    server_name: 'windows-server-hostname'
    insecure_skip_verify: false
    ldap_ca_cert: |
        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
        MIIDnzCCAoegAwIBAgIQT/UIn+MT4aZC9ix/QuiV9zANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQsFADBi
        ...
        31qA4dO3if7RdikD9hVbiIF9jQ==
        -----END CERTIFICATE-----

  discovery:
    base_dn: '*'
  labels:
    teleport.internal/resource-id: 42d8859c-60d0-4d7f-9767-bdd66b63fce6
```

Click **Next**.

Once you've saved `/etc/teleport.yaml`, start Teleport:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="System Service">

This command assumes the `root` user. Prepend `sudo` otherwise.

```code

> $ systemctl start teleport.service

Reviewer 2: Do we assume the user has already created a systemd unit for teleport?

Author: No, we have tabs for both. As rendered:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2349184/201380724-8832bbfb-4d86-467d-b5f3-8701ab22968f.png)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2349184/201380764-02e7ed43-27ff-4afe-bf7e-872496d33de0.png)

---
title: Getting Started
description: Automatically add Teleport Desktop Access to your infrastructure
---

<Details
  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="10.2.6"
>

The features documented on this page are available in Teleport `10.2.6` and higher.

</Details>

This guide will help you configure Teleport and Active Directory in order to provide secure, passwordless access to Windows desktops.

## Prerequisites

<ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>

- One or more hosts to run the Teleport Auth and Proxy services on.

</ScopedBlock>
- A server or virtual machine running a Windows Server operating system.

- A Linux host where you will run the Teleport Desktop Service.
  <ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}> This guide assumes that you will
  run Teleport's Windows Desktop Service on a dedicated host. To install Desktop
  Access into an existing Teleport instance running other services, see the
  [Manual Setup](manual-setup.mdx) guide for Desktop Access.</ScopedBlock>

>   See [Installation](../installation.mdx) for details.

Author: Upon reflection, I think we can remove this line since we go through installation using partials.
```suggestion
```
